A beautiful thing never gives so much pain as does failing to hear and see it. — Michelangelo
A blank piece of paper is God's way of telling us how hard it is to be God. — Sidney Sheldon
A good painting to me has always been like a friend. It keeps me company, comforts and inspires. — Hedy Lamarr
A guilty conscience needs to confess. A work of art is a confession. — Albert Camus
A man paints with his brains and not with his hands. — Michelangelo
A person is a fool to become a writer. His only compensation is absolute freedom. He has no master except his own soul, and that, I am sure, is why he does it. — Roald Dahl
A picture is a poem without words. — Horace
A picture is a work of art, not because it is 'modern,' nor because it is 'ancient,' but because it is a sincere expression of human feeling. — John F. Carlson
A professional writer is an amateur who didn’t quit. — Richard Bach
A word after a word after a word is power. — Margaret Atwood
A work of art is above all an adventure of the mind. — Eugene Ionesco
A writer is a world trapped in a person. — Victor Hugo
A writer is someone for whom writing is more difficult than it is for other people. — Thomas Mann
A writer never has a vacation. For a writer life consists of either writing or thinking about writing. — Eugene Ionesco
Abandon the idea that you are ever going to finish. Lose track of the 400 pages and write just one page for each day, it helps. Then when it gets finished, you are always surprised. — John Steinbeck
Advertising is the greatest art form of the 20th century. — Marshall McLuhan
After nourishment, shelter and companionship, stories are the thing we need most in the world. — Philip Pullman
After silence, that which comes nearest to expressing the inexpressible is music. — Aldous Huxley
All art deals with the absurd and aims at the simple. Good art speaks truth, indeed is truth, perhaps the only truth. — Iris Murdoch
All art is but imitation of nature. — Lucius Annaeus Seneca
All fiction relies on the real world in the sense that we all take in the world through our five senses and we accumulate details, consciously or subconsciously. This accumulation of detail can be drawn on when you write fiction. — Rohinton Mistry
All religions, arts and sciences are branches of the same tree. — Albert Einstein
All stories have to at least try to explain some small portion of the meaning of life. — Gene Weingarten
All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know. — Ernest Hemingway
An absolutely necessary part of a writer’s equipment, almost as necessary as talent, is the ability to stand up under punishment, both the punishment the world hands out and the punishment he inflicts upon himself. — Irwin Shaw
An art which isn't based on feeling isn't an art at all. — Paul Cezanne
An artist is not paid for his labor but for his vision. — James McNeill Whistler
An artist is not paid for his labor but for his vision. — James Whistler
An artist is somebody who produces things that people don’t need to have. — Andy Warhol
An intellectual says a simple thing in a hard way. An artist says a hard thing in a simple way. — Charles Bukowski
And one of [the things you learn as you get older] is, you really need less… My model for this is late Beethoven. He moves so strangely and quite suddenly sometimes from place to place in his music, in the late quartets. He knows where he’s going and he just doesn’t want to waste all that time getting there… One is aware of this as one gets older. You can’t waste time. — Ursula K. Le Guin
Any form of art is a form of power; it has impact, it can affect change – it can not only move us, it makes us move. — Ossie Davis
Any man who keeps working is not a failure. He may not be a great writer, but if he applies the old-fashioned virtues of hard, constant labor, he’ll eventually make some kind of career for himself as a writer. — Ray Bradbury
Any word you have to hunt for in a thesaurus is the wrong word. There are no exceptions to this rule. — Stephen King
Anybody can make history. Only a great man can write it. — Oscar Wilde
Anyone who says writing is easy isn’t doing it right. — Amy Joy
Art arises when the secret vision of the artist and the manifestation of nature agree to find new shapes. — Khalil Gibran
Art attracts us only by what it reveals of our most secret self. — Alfred North Whitehead
Art consists of limitation. The most beautiful part of every picture is the frame. — Gilbert K. Chesterton
Art doesn’t transform. It just plain forms. — Roy Lichtenstein
Art enables us to find ourselves and lose ourselves at the same time. — Thomas Merton
Art evokes emotion. It doesn’t have to be a thing of beauty. — Eli Broad
Art evokes the mystery without which the world would not exist. — Rene Magritte
Art evokes the mystery without which the world would not exist. — René Magritte
Art is a collaboration between God and the artist, and the less the artist does the better. — Andre Gide
Art is a discovery and development of elementary principles of nature into beautiful forms suitable for human use. — Frank Lloyd Wright
Art is a guarantee of sanity. — Louise Bourgeois
Art is a harmony parallel with nature. — Paul Cezanna
Art is a human activity having for its purpose the transmission to others of the highest and best feelings to which men have risen. — Leo Tolstoy
Art is a lie that makes us realize truth. — Pablo Picasso
Art is a marriage of the conscious and the unconscious. — Jean Cocteau
Art is about changing what we see in our everyday lives and representing it in such a way that it gives us hope. — Kehinde Wiley
Art is amoral; so is life. For me there are no obscene pictures or books; there are only poorly conceived and poorly executed ones. — Irving Stone
Art is contemplation. It is the pleasure of the mind which searches into nature and which there divines the spirit of which Nature herself is animated. — Auguste Rodin
Art is contemplation. It is the pleasure of the mind which searches into nature and which there divines the spirit of which nature herself is animated. — Auguste Rodin
Art is essentially the affirmation, the blessing, and the deification of existence. — Friedrich Nietzsche
Art is everywhere, except it has to pass through a creative mind. — Louise Nevelson
Art is just another way of keeping a diary. — Pablo Picasso
Art is like singing. Some do it better than others, but everyone can and should be doing it for their soul. — Barbara Mason
Art is never chaste. We forbid it to the ignorant innocents, never allow a contact with those not sufficiently prepared. Yes art is dangerous, and if it is chaste it isn’t art. — Pablo Picasso
Art is not a handicraft, it is the transmission of feeling the artist has experienced. — Leo Tolstoy
Art is not a mirror to hold up to society, but a hammer with which to shape it. — Leon Trotsky
Art is not a study of positive reality, it is the seeking for ideal truth. — John Ruskin
Art is not a thing; it is a way. — Elbert Hubbard
Art is not what you see, but what you make others see. — Degas
Art is restoration: the idea is to repair the damages that are inflicted in life, to make something that is fragmented – which is what fear and anxiety do to a person – into something whole. — Louise Bourgeois
Art is science made clear. — Wilson Mizner
Art is the daughter of freedom. — Friedrich Schiller
Art is the desire of a man to express himself, to record the reactions of his personality to the world he lives in. — Amy Lowell
Art is the elimination of the unnecessary. — Pablo Picasso
Art is the highest form of hope. — Gerhard Richter
Art is the imposing of a pattern on experience. — Alfred North Whitehead
Art is the most intense mode of individualism that the world has known. — Oscar Wilde
Art is the objectification of feeling. — Herman Melville
Art is the only way to run away without leaving home. — Twyla Tharp
Art is the proper task of life. — Friedrich Nietzsche
Art is the stored honey of the human soul, gathered on wings of misery and travail. — Theodore Dreiser
Art is unquestionably one of the purest and highest elements in human happiness. It trains the mind through the eye, and the eye through the mind. As the sun colors flowers, so does art color life. — John Lubbock
Art itself is essentially ethical; because every true work of art must have a beauty or grandeur of some kind, and beauty and grandeur cannot be comprehended by the beholder except through the moral sentiment. The eye is only a witness; it is not a judge. The mind judges what the eye reports to it; therefore, whatever elevates the moral sentiment to the contemplation of beauty and grandeur is in itself ethical. — Edward Bulwer-Lytton
Art must take reality by surprise. — Francoise Sagan
Art remains the one way possible of speaking truth. — Robert Browning
Art should be something like a good armchair in which to rest from physical fatigue. — Henri Matisse
Art should be something that liberates your soul, provokes the imagination and encourages people to go further. — Keith Haring
Art speaks where words are unable to explain. — Unknown
Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life. — Pablo Picasso
Art washes from the soul the dust of everyday life. — Pablo Picasso
Art works because it appeals to certain faculties of the mind. Music depends on details of the auditory system, painting and sculpture on the visual system. Poetry and literature depend on language. — Steven Pinker
Art, freedom and creativity will change society faster than politics. — Victor Pinchuk
Artistic talent is a gift from God and whoever discovers it in himself has a certain obligation: to know that he cannot waste this talent, but must develop it. — Pope John Paul II
As a general truth, it is safe to say that any picture that produces a moral impression is a bad picture. — The Goncourt brothers
As a well-spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death. — Leonardo da Vinci
As a writer, you should not judge, you should understand. — Ernest Hemingway
As for ‘Write what you know,’ I was regularly told this as a beginner. I think it’s a very good rule and have always obeyed it. I write about imaginary countries, alien societies on other planets, dragons, wizards, the Napa Valley in 22002. I know these things. I know them better than anybody else possibly could, so it’s my duty to testify about them. — Ursula K. Le Guin
As music is the poetry of sound, so is painting the poetry of sight and the subject-matter has nothing to do with harmony of sound or of color. — James Mcneill Whistler
Be true to yourself. Make each day a masterpiece. Help others. Drink deeply from good books. Make friendship a fine art. Build a shelter against a rainy day. — John Wooden
Be willing to write really badly. — Jennifer Egan
Beauty is the purgation of superfluities. — Michaelangelo
Being a writer is a very peculiar sort of job: It’s always you versus a blank sheet of paper (or a blank screen) and quite often the blank piece of paper wins. — Neil Gaiman
Blessed are they who see beautiful things in humble places where other people see nothing. — Camille Pissarro
Cheat your landlord if you can and must, but do not try to shortchange the Muse. It cannot be done. You can’t fake quality any more than you can fake a good meal. — William S. Burroughs
Creativity gives hope that there can be a worthwhile idea. — Edward de Bono
Creativity is allowing yourself to make mistakes. Art is knowing which ones to keep. — Scott Adams
Creativity takes courage. — Henri Matisse
Do not hoard what seems good for a later place in the book, or for another book; give it, give it all, give it now. — Annie Dillard
Don’t take anyone’s writing advice too seriously. — Lev Grossman
Don’t tell me the moon is shining; show me the glint of light on broken glass. — Anton Chekhov
Each writer is born with a repertory company in his head. Shakespeare has perhaps 20 players. I have 10 or so, and that’s a lot. As you get older, you become more skillful at casting them. — Gore Vidal
Editing might be a bloody trade, but knives aren’t the exclusive property of butchers. Surgeons use them too. — Blake Morrison
Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing. — Benjamin Franklin
Every child is an artist. The problem is how to remain an artist once he grows up. — Pablo Picasso
Every good painter paints what he is. — Jackson Pollock
Every painting is a voyage into a sacred harbour. — Giotto di Bondone
Every secret of a writer’s soul, every experience of his life, every quality of his mind, is written large in his works. — Virginia Woolf
Everybody knows how fallible memory can sometimes be. You remember certain fragments precisely, but as soon as you try to join the fragments together, for a story, there is a certain – not falsification, but a shifting. — Gunter Grass
Everybody walks past a thousand story ideas every day. The good writers are the ones who see five or six of them. Most people don’t see any. — Orson Scott
Everywhere I go, I’m asked if the universities stifle writers. My opinion is that they don’t stifle enough of them. — Flannery O’Connor
Exercise the writing muscle every day, even if it is only a letter, notes, a title list, a character sketch, a journal entry. Writers are like dancers, like athletes. Without that exercise, the muscles seize up. — Jane Yolen
Failures are finger posts on the road to achievement. — C. S. Lewis
Fantasy, abandoned by reason, produces impossible monsters; united with it, she is the mother of the arts and the origin of marvels. — Francisco Goya
Fiction reveals truths that reality obscures. — Jessamyn West
Find a subject you care about and which you in your heart feel others should care about. It is this genuine caring, not your games with language, which will be the most compelling and seductive element in your style. — Stephen King
Find your best time of the day for writing and write. Don’t let anything else interfere. Afterwards it won’t matter to you that the kitchen is a mess. — Esther Freud
Fine art is that in which the hand, the head, and the heart of man go together. — John Ruskin
First, find out what your hero wants, then just follow him. — Ray Bradbury
Focus more on your desire than on your doubt, and the dream will take care of itself. — Mark Twain
For thousands of years art was seen as a source of responsible moral and ethical leadership. Today, taking that stance is almost seen as comic. — Jack Beal
For your born writer, nothing is so healing as the realization that he has come upon the right word. — Catherine Drinker Bowen
Get it down. Take chances. It may be bad, but it's the only way you can do anything really good. — William Faulkner
Get through a draft as quickly as possible. — Joshua Wolf Shenk
Good fiction’s job is to comfort the disturbed and disturb the comfortable. — David Foster Wallace
Great art picks up where nature ends. — Marc Chagall
Half my life is an act of revision. — John Irving
Here is a lesson in creative writing. First rule: Do not use semicolons. [...] All they do is show you've been to college. — Kurt Vonnegut
History will be kind to me for I intend to write it. — Winston Churchill
How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live. — Henry David Thoreau
I am irritated by my own writing. I am like a violinist whose ear is true, but whose fingers refuse to reproduce precisely the sound he hears within. — Gustave Flaubert
I am not at all in a humor for writing; I must write on until I am. — Jane Austen
I begin with an idea and then it becomes something else. — Pablo Picasso
I believe art is utterly important. It is one of the things that could save us. — Mary Oliver
I believe myself that a good writer doesn’t really need to be told anything except to keep at it. — Chinua Achebe
I believe the target of anything in life should be to do it so well that it becomes an art. — Arsene Wenger
I can shake off everything as I write; my sorrows disappear, my courage is reborn. — Anne Frank
I consider morals and aesthetics one and the same, for they cover only one impulse, one drive inherent in our consciousness – to bring our life and all our actions into a satisfactory relationship with the events of the world as our consciousness wants it to be, in harmony with our life and according to the laws of consciousness itself. — Naum Gabo
I could write an entertaining novel about rejection slips, but I fear it would be overly long. — Louise Brown
I do not literally paint that table, but the emotion it produces upon me. — Henri Matisse
I do not over-intellectualise the production process. I try to keep it simple: Tell the damned story. — Tom Clancy
I do not want ART for a few any more than education for a few, or freedom for a few. — William Morris
I don't know anybody who needs a critic to find out what art is. — Ansel Adams
I don’t wait for moods. You accomplish nothing if you do that. Your mind must know it has got to get down to work. — Pearl S. Buck
I don’t want just words. If that’s all you have for me, you’d better go. — F. Scott Fitzgerald
I found I could say things with color and shapes that I couldn’t say any other way – things I had no words for. — Georgia O’Keefe
I found I could say things with color and shapes that I couldn’t say any other way – things I had no words for. — Georgia O’Keeffe
I go out to my little office, where I’ve got a manuscript, and the last page I was happy with is on top. I read that, and it’s like getting on a taxiway. I’m able to go through and revise it and put myself back into that world. — Stephen King
I had immediate success in the sense that I sold something right off the bat. I thought it was going to be a piece of cake and it really wasn’t. I have drawers full of - or I did have - drawers full of rejection slips. — Fred Saberhagen
I just feel that I’m in tune with the right vibrations in the universe when I’m in the process of working. — Louise Nevelson
I just give myself permission to suck. I delete about 90 percent of my first drafts, so it doesn’t really matter much if on a particular day I write beautiful and brilliant prose that will stick in the minds of my readers forever, because there’s a 90 percent chance I’m just going to delete whatever I write anyway. I find this hugely liberating. — John Green
I kept always two books in my pocket: one to read, one to write in. — Robert Louis Stevenson
I love deadlines. I like the whooshing sound they make as they fly by. — Douglas Adams
I love my rejection slips. They show me I try. — Sylvia Plath
I never paint dreams or nightmares. I paint my own reality. — Frida Kahlo
I shut my eyes in order to see. — Paul Gauguin
I tell writers to keep reading, reading, reading. Read widely and deeply. And I tell them not to give up even after getting rejection letters. And only write what you love. — Anita Diamant
I think all writing is a disease. You can’t stop it. — William Carlos Williams
I think being different, going against the grain of society is the greatest thing in the world. — Elijah Wood
I think in art, but especially in films, people are trying to confirm their own existences. — Jim Morrison
I think that you have to believe in your destiny; that you will succeed, you will meet a lot of rejection and it is not always a straight path, there will be detours - so enjoy the view. — Michael York
I try to apply colors like words that shape poems, like notes that shape music. — Joan Miro
I used to save all my rejection slips because I told myself, one day I’m going to autograph these and auction them. And then I lost the box. — James Lee Burke
I want to touch people with my art. I want them to say 'he feels deeply, he feels tenderly.' — Vincent Van Gogh
I went for years not finishing anything. Because, of course, when you finish something you can be judged. — Erica Jong
I would advise any beginning writer to write the first drafts as if no one else will ever read them - without a thought about publication - and only in the last draft to consider how the work will look from the outside. — Anne Tyler
I would advise anyone who aspires to a writing career that before developing his talent, he would be wise to develop a thick hide. — Harper Lee
I would write a book, or a short story, at least three times - once to understand it, the second time to improve the prose, and a third to compel it to say what it still must say. Somewhere I put it this way: first drafts are for learning what one's fiction wants him to say. Revision works with that knowledge to enlarge and enhance an idea, to reform it. Revision is one of the exquisite pleasures of writing. — Bernard Malamud
I'm all for the scissors. I believe more in the scissors than I do in the pencil. — Truman Capote
I've found the best way to revise your own work is to pretend that somebody else wrote it and then to rip the living shit out of it. — Don Roff
Ideas are cheap. It’s the execution that is all important. — George R.R. Martin
If I had to give young writers advice, I would say don’t listen to writers talking about writing or themselves. — Lillian Hellman
If I waited for perfection, I would never write a word. — Margaret Atwood
If a man devotes himself to art, much evil is avoided that happens otherwise if one is idle. — Albrecht Durer
If a nation loses its storytellers, it loses its childhood. — Peter Handke
If art is to nourish the roots of our culture, society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him. — John F. Kennedy
If it sounds like writing, I rewrite it. Or, if proper usage gets in the way, it may have to go. I can't allow what we learned in English composition to disrupt the sound and rhythm of the narrative. — Elmore Leonard
If my doctor told me I had only six minutes to live, I wouldn't brood. I'd type a little faster. — Isaac Asimov
If the book is true, it will find an audience that is meant to read it. — Wally Lamb
If there's a book that you want to read, but it hasn't been written yet, then you must write it. — Toni Morrison
If we could but paint with the hand what we see with the eye. — Honore de Balzac
If you don't have time to read, you don't have the time (or the tools) to write. Simple as that. — Stephen King
If you hear a voice within you say 'you cannot paint,' then by all means paint, and that voice will be silenced. — Vincent Van Gogh
If you wait for inspiration to write you’re not a writer, you’re a waiter. — Dan Poynter
If you want to change the world, pick up your pen and write. — Martin Luther
Illusions are art, for the feeling person, and it is by art that we live, if we do. — Elizabeth Bowen
Imagination and fiction make up more than three quarters of our real life. — Simone Weil
Imagination does not become great until human beings, given the courage and the strength, use it to create. — Maria Montessori
In a world that has ceased to believe in sin, the artist is responsible for the preaching. — Albert Camus
In art as in love, instinct is enough. — Anatole France
In art, the hand can never execute anything higher than the heart can imagine. — Ralph Waldo Emerson
In art, to express the infinite one should suggest infinitely more than is expressed. — Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
In its most limited sense, modern, art would seem to concern itself only with the technical innovations of the period. — Edward Hopper
In our time there are many artists who do something because it is new; they see their value and their justification in this newness. They are deceiving themselves; novelty is seldom the essential. This has to do with one thing only; making a subject better from its intrinsic nature. — Henri de Toulouse Lautrec
Indeed, learning to write may be part of learning to read. For all I know, writing comes out of a superior devotion to reading. — Eudora Welty
Inspiration in Science may have to do with ideas, but not in Art. In art it is in the senses that are instinctively responsive to the medium of expression. — Arthur Erickson
Instead of worrying about what people say of you, why not spend time trying to accomplish something they will admire. — Dale Carnegie
It doesn’t matter how many book ideas you have if you can’t finish writing your book. — Joe Bunting
It has bothered me all my life that I do not paint like everybody else. — Henri Matisse
It is by sitting down to write every morning that one becomes a writer. — Gerald Brenan
It is not the language of painters but the language of nature which one should listen to, the feeling for the things themselves, for reality, is more important than the feeling for pictures. — Vincent Van Gogh
It is only by writing, not dreaming about it, that we develop our own style. — P.D. James
It is perfectly okay to write garbage - as long as you edit brilliantly. — C. J. Cherryh
It is ridiculous to say that art has nothing to do with morality. What is true is that the artist’s business is not that of the policeman. — George Bernard Shaw
It is through art, and through art only, that we can realise our perfection. — Oscar Wilde
It is worth mentioning, for future reference, that the creative power which bubbles so pleasantly in beginning a new book quiets down after a time, and one goes on more steadily. Doubts creep in. Then one becomes resigned. Determination not to give in, and the sense of an impending shape keep one at it more than anything. — Virginia Woolf
It takes a very long time to become young. — Pablo Picasso
It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see. — Henry David Thoreau
It’s none of their business that you have to learn to write. Let them think you were born that way. — Ernest Hemingway
I’m interested in memory because it’s a filter through which we see our lives, and because it’s foggy and obscure, the opportunities for self-deception are there. In the end, as a writer, I’m more interested in what people tell themselves happened rather than what actually happened. — Kazuo Ishiguro
I’m very lucky in that I don’t understand the world yet. If I understood the world, it would be harder for me to write these books. — Mo Willems
I’ve been writing since I was six. It is a compulsion, so I can’t really say where the desire came from; I’ve always had it. My breakthrough with the first book came through persistence, because a lot of publishers turned it down. — J.K. Rowling
I’ve handled colour as a man should behave. You may conclude that I consider ethics and aesthetics as one. — Josef Albers
Just write every day of your life. Read intensely. Then see what happens. Most of my friends who are put on that diet have very pleasant careers. — Ray Bradbury
Let me live, love, and say it well in good sentences. — Sylvia Plath
Life imitates art far more than art imitates Life. — Oscar Wilde
Literature becomes the living memory of a nation. — Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
Literature is my Utopia. Here I am not disenfranchised. No barrier of the senses shuts me out from the sweet, gracious discourses of my book friends. They talk to me without embarrassment or awkwardness. — Helen Keller
Literature is strewn with the wreckage of men who have minded beyond reason the opinions of others. — Virginia Woolf
Lord, grant that I may always desire more than I can accomplish. — Michelangelo
Many people hear voices when no one is there. Some of them are called mad and are shut up in rooms where they stare at the walls all day. Others are called writers and they do pretty much the same thing. — Margaret Chittenden
Memory is a great artist. For every man and for every woman it makes the recollection of his or her life a work of art and an unfaithful record. — Andre Maurois
Most writers regard the truth as their most valuable possession, and therefore are most economical in its use. — Mark Twain
Music happens to be an art form that transcends language. — Herbie Hancock
Music is a higher revelation than all wisdom and philosophy. — Ludwig van Beethoven
My aim in constructing sentences is to make the sentence utterly easy to understand, writing what I call transparent prose. I’ve failed dreadfully if you have to read a sentence twice to figure out what I meant. — Ken Follett
My own experience is that once a story has been written, one has to cross out the beginning and the end. It is there that we authors do most of our lying. — Anton Chekhov
My painting carries with it the message of pain. — Frida Kahlo
No author dislikes to be edited as much as he dislikes not to be published. — Russell Lynes
No difficulty can discourage, no obstacle dismay, no trouble disheartens the man who has acquired the art of being alive. Difficulties are but dares of fate, obstacles but hurdles to try his skill, troubles but bitter tonics to give him strength; and he rises higher and looms greater after each encounter with adversity. — Ella Wheeler Wilcox
No matter what people tell you, words and ideas can change the world. — Robin Williams
No passion in the world is equal to the passion to alter someone else's draft. — H.G. Wells
No tears in the writer, no tears in the reader. No surprise in the writer, no surprise in the reader. — Robert Frost
Not that the story need be long, but it will take a long while to make it short. — Henry David Thoreau
Nothing is a waste of time if you use the experience wisely. — Auguste Rodin
On first drafts: It is completely raw, the sort of thing I feel free to do with the door shut - it’s the story undressed, standing up in nothing but its socks and undershorts. — Stephen King
One day I will find the right words, and they will be simple. — Jack Kerouac
One sure window into a person’s soul is his reading list. — Mary B. W. Tabor
One thing that helps is to give myself permission to write badly. I tell myself that I’m going to do my five or 10 pages no matter what, and that I can always tear them up the following morning if I want. I’ll have lost nothing - writing and tearing up five pages would leave me no further behind than if I took the day off. — Lawrence Block
Only kings, presidents, editors, and people with tapeworms have the right to use the editorial 'we'. — Mark Twain
Only through art can we emerge from ourselves and know what another person sees. — Marcel Proust
Only when he no longer knows what he is doing does the painter do good things. — Edgar Degas
Our job in this life is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it. — Steven Pressfield
Painting is just another way of keeping a diary. — Pablo Picasso
Painting is the only universal language. All nature is creation’s picture book. Painting alone can describe every thing which can be seen, and suggest every emotion which can be felt. Art reaches back into the babyhood of time, and is man’s only lasting monument. — William Morris Hunt
Part 1. I notice that you use plain, simple language, short words and brief sentences. That is the way to write English — it is the modern way and the best way. Stick to it; don’t let fluff and flowers and verbosity creep in.
People say, ‘What advice do you have for people who want to be writers?’ I say, they don’t really need advice, they know they want to be writers, and they’re gonna do it. Those people who know that they really want to do this and are cut out for it, they know it. — R.L. Stine
Personally, I experience the greatest degree of pleasure in having contact with works of art. They furnish me with happy feelings of an intensity that I cannot derive from other sources. — Albert Einstein
Photography is a major force in explaining man to man. — Edward Steichen
Poetry heals the wounds inflicted by reason. — Novalis
Poetry involves the mysteries of the irrational perceived through rational words. — Vladimir Nabokov
Poor is the pupil who does not surpass his master. — Leonardo da Vinci
Rationalism is the enemy of art, though necessary as a basis for architecture. — Arthur Erickson
Read a thousand books, and your words will flow like a river. — Lisa See
Read, read, read. Read everything  -  trash, classics, good and bad, and see how they do it. Just like a carpenter who works as an apprentice and studies the master. Read! You'll absorb it. Then write. If it's good, you'll find out. If it's not, throw it out of the window. — William Faulkner
Rejection slips, or form letters, however tactfully phrased, are lacerations of the soul, if not quite inventions of the devil - but there is no way around them. — Isaac Asimov
Remember: when people tell you something’s wrong or doesn’t work for them, they are almost always right. When they tell you exactly what they think is wrong and how to fix it, they are almost always wrong. — Neil Gaiman
Skill without imagination is craftsmanship and gives us many useful objects such as wickerwork picnic baskets. Imagination without skill gives us modern art. — Tom Stoppard
So the writer who breeds more words than he needs, is making a chore for the reader who reads. — Dr. Seuss
Some editors are failed writers, but so are most writers. — T.S. Eliot
Sometimes the ideas just come to me. Other times I have to sweat and almost bleed to make ideas come. It’s a mysterious process, but I hope I never find out exactly how it works. I like a mystery, as you may have noticed. — J.K. Rowling
Start writing, no matter what. The water does not flow until the faucet is turned on. — Louis L’Amour
Style means the right word. The rest matters little. — Jules Renard
Substitute 'damn' every time you’re inclined to write 'very;' your editor will delete it and the writing will be just as it should be. — Mark Twain
Talent is insignificant. I know a lot of talented ruins. Beyond talent lie all the usual words: discipline, love, luck, but most of all, endurance. — James Baldwin
The Six Golden Rules of Writing: Read, read, read, and write, write, write. — Ernest Gaines
The act of creation is a kind of ritual. The origins of art and human existence lie hidden in this mystery of creation. Human creativity reaffirms and mystifies the power of 'life. — Keith Haring
The aim of art is to represent not the outward appearance of things, but their inward significance. — Aristotle
The art of art, the glory of expression, and the sunshine of the light of letters is simplicity. — Walt Whitman
The artist doesn’t have time to listen to the critics. The ones who want to be writers read the reviews, the ones who want to write don’t have the time to read reviews. — William Faulkner
The artist’s job is to be a witness to his time in history. — Robert Rauschenberg
The arts are not a way to make a living. They are a very human way of making life more bearable. Practicing an art, no matter how well or badly, is a way to make your soul grow. — Kurt Vonnegut Jr.
The beautiful is in nature, and it is encountered under the most diverse forms of reality. Once it is found it belongs to art, or rather to the artist who discovers it. — Gustave Courbet
The beauty of art is that it allows you to slow down, and for a moment, things that once seemed unfamiliar become precious to you. — Kehinde Wiley
The beauty one can find in art is one of the pitifully few real and lasting products of human endeavor. — Paul Getty
The best advice on writing was given to me by my first editor, Michael Korda, of Simon and Schuster, while writing my first book. 'Finish your first draft and then we'll talk,' he said. It took me a long time to realize how good the advice was. Even if you write it wrong, write and finish your first draft. Only then, when you have a flawed whole, do you know what you have to fix. — Dominick Dunne
The big art is our life. — Mary Caroline Richards
The big artist…keeps an eye on nature and steals her tools. — Thomas Eakins
The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame. — Oscar Wilde
The business of art is to reveal the relation between man and his environment. — D.H. Lawrence
The creative act lasts but a brief moment, a lightning instant of give-and-take, just long enough for you to level the camera and to trap the fleeting prey in your little box. — Henri Cartier-Bresson
The creative process is a process of surrender, not control. — Julia Cameron
The difference between fiction and reality? Fiction has to make sense. — Tom Clancy
The difference between the almost right word and the right word is the difference between the lightning bug and the lightning. — Mark Twain
The essence of all art is to have pleasure in giving pleasure. — Dale Carnegie
The essence of all beautiful art, all great art, is gratitude. — Friedrich Nietzsche
The essential function of art is moral. But a passionate, implicit morality, not didactic. A morality which changes the blood, rather than the mind. — D. H. Lawrence
The final purpose of art is to intensify, even, if necessary, to exacerbate, the moral consciousness of people. — Norman Mailer
The first draft is just you telling yourself the story. — Terry Pratchett
The first draft of everything is shit. — Ernest Hemingway
The first essential to success in the art you practice is respect for the art itself. — Edward Bulwer-Lytton
The good writing of any age has always been the product of someone’s neurosis. — William Styron
The greatest part of a writer’s time is spent in reading, in order to write; a man will turn over half a library to make one book. — Samuel Johnson
The imagination imitates. It is the critical spirit that creates. — Oscar Wilde
The job of the artist is always to deepen the mystery. — Francis Bacon
The laws of morals and the laws of music are the same. — Zoltan Kodaly
The main rule of writing is that if you do it with enough assurance and confidence, you’re allowed to do whatever you like. (That may be a rule for life as well as for writing. But it’s definitely true for writing.) So write your story as it needs to be written. Write it ­honestly, and tell it as best you can. I’m not sure that there are any other rules. Not ones that matter. — Neil Gaiman
The main thing I try to do is write as clearly as I can. I rewrite a good deal to make it clear. — E.B. White
The mission of art is to represent nature not to imitate her. — William Morris Hunt
The moment an emotion or fact is transformed into a photograph it is no longer a fact but an opinion. — Richard Avedon
The moment you think you understand a great work of art, it’s dead for you. — Oscar Wilde
The moral backbone of literature is about that whole question of memory. To my mind it seems clear that those who have no memory have the much greater chance to lead happy lives. — W. G. Sebald
The more I look at most of the art movements, it's all occultism, when you get down to it. The Surrealists were openly talking about being magicians. — Alan Moore
The more minimal the art, the more maximum the explanation. — Hilton Kramer
The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. — Albert Einstein
The nearest I have to a rule is a Post-it on the wall in front of my desk saying ‘Faire et se taire’ from Flaubert. Which I translate for myself as ‘Shut up and get on with it.’ — Helen Simpson
The object of Art is to give life a shape. — William Shakespeare
The object of art is not to reproduce reality, but to create a reality of the same intensity. — Alberto Giacometti
The painting has a life of its own. — Jackson Pollock
The position of the artist if humble. He is essentially a channel. — Piet Mondrian
The principles of true art is not to portray, but to evoke. — Jerzy Kosinski
The purpose of a writer is to keep civilization from destroying itself. — Albert Camus
The purpose of art is washing the dust of daily life off our souls. — Pablo Picasso
The secret to being a writer is that you have to write. It’s not enough to think about writing or to study literature or plan a future life as an author. You really have to lock yourself away, alone, and get to work. — Augusten Burroughs
The source of genius is imagination alone, the refinement of the senses that sees what others do not see, or sees them differently. — Eugène Delacroix
The story must strike a nerve in me. My heart should start pounding when I hear the first line in my head. I start trembling at the risk. — Susan Sontag
The task of a writer consists of being able to make something out of an idea. — Thomas Mann
The true work of art is but a shadow of the divine perfection. — Michelangelo
The very reason I write is so that I might not sleepwalk through my entire life. — Zadie Smith
The waking mind is the least serviceable in the arts. — Henry Miller
The work of art is a scream of freedom. — Christo
The work of art may have a moral effect, but to demand moral purpose from the artist is to make him ruin his work. — Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
The work of art must seize upon you…carry you away. — Pierre-Auguste Renoir
The world always seems brighter when you've just made something that wasn't there before. — Neil Gaiman
The writer, when he is also an artist, is someone who admits what others don’t dare reveal. — Elia Kazan
The writer’s joy is the thought that can become emotion, the emotion that can wholly become a thought. — Thomas Mann
There are more valid facts and details in works of art than there are in history books. — Charlie Chaplin
There are painters who transform the sun into a yellow spot, but there are others who,thanks to their art and intelligence, transform a yellow spot into the sun. — Pablo Picasso
There are some books that refuse to be written. They stand their ground year after year and will not be persuaded. It isn’t because the book is not there and worth being written - it is only because the right form of the story does not present itself. There is only one right form for a story and, if you fail to find that form, the story will not tell itself. — Mark Twain
There are three rules for writing a novel. Unfortunately, no one knows what they are. — Somerset Maugham
There is no greater agony than bearing an untold story inside you. — Maya Angelou
There is no must in art because art is free. — Wassily Kandinsky
There is no real ending. It’s just the place where you stop the story. — Frank Herbert
There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at the typewriter and bleed. — Ernest Hemingway
There was a time when meanings were focused and reality could be fixed; when that sort of belief disappeared, things became uncertain and open to interpretation. — Bridget Riley
This manuscript of yours that has just come back from another editor is a precious package. Don’t consider it rejected. Consider that you’ve addressed it ‘to the editor who can appreciate my work’ and it has simply come back stamped ‘Not at this address’. Just keep looking for the right address. — Barbara Kingsolver
This world is but a canvas to our imagination. — Henry David Thoreau
Those who do not want to imitate anything, produce nothing. — Salvador Dali
To an engineer, good enough means perfect. With an artist, there’s no such thing as perfect. — Alexander Calder
To be an artist is to believe in life. — Henry Moore
To be creative means to be in love with life. You can be creative only if you love life enough that you want to enhance its beauty, you want to bring a little more music to it, a little more poetry to it, a little more dance to it. — Osho
To become truly immortal, a work of art must escape all human limits: logic and commonsense will only interfere. But once these barriers are broken, it will enter the realms ofchildhood visions and dreams. — Giorgio DeChirico
To gain your own voice, you have to forget about having it heard. — Allen Ginsberg
To produce a mighty book, you must choose a mighty theme. — Herman Melville
To send light into the darkness of men's hearts – such is the duty of the artist. — Robert Schumann
To ward off a feeling of failure, she joked that she could wallpaper her bathroom with rejection slips, which she chose not to see as messages to stop, but rather as tickets to the game. — Anita Shreve
True art is characterized by an irresistible urge in the creative artist. — Albert Einstein
Truly fertile Music, the only kind that will move us, that we shall truly appreciate, will be a Music conducive to Dream, which banishes all reason and analysis. One must not wish first to understand and then to feel. Art does not tolerate Reason. — Albert Camus
Vision is the art of seeing what is invisible to others. — Jonathan Swift
Voice is not just the result of a single sentence or paragraph or page. It’s not even the sum total of a whole story. It’s all your work laid out across the table like the bones and fossils of an unidentified carcass. — Chuck Wendig
Was I bitter? Absolutely. Hurt? You bet your sweet ass I was hurt. Who doesn’t feel a part of their heart break at rejection. You ask yourself every question you can think of, what, why, how come, and then your sadness turns to anger. That’s my favorite part. It drives me, feeds me, and makes one hell of a story. — Jennifer Salaiz
We have to continually be jumping off cliffs and developing our wings on the way down. — Kurt Vonnegut
We write to taste life twice, in the moment and in retrospect. — Anais Nin
Were I called on to define, very briefly, the term Art, I should call it ‘the reproduction of what the Senses perceive in Nature through the veil of the soul.’ The mere imitation, however accurate, of what is in Nature, entitles no man to the sacred name of ‘Artist.’ — Edgar Allan Poe
What art is, in reality, is this missing link, not the links which exist. It's not what you see that is art; art is the gap. — Marcel Duchamp
What is Art? It is the response of man's creative soul to the call of the Real. — Rabindranath Tagore
What is art but a way of seeing? — Saul Bellow
What is beautiful is moral; that is all there is to it. — Gustave Flaubert
What moves men of genius, or rather what inspires their work, is not new ideas, but their obsession with the idea that what has already been said is still not enough. — Eugene Delacroix
When I feel a little confused the only thing to do is to turn back to the study of nature before launching once again into the subjects closest to heart. — Raoul Dufy
When I sit down to write a book, I do not say to myself, ‘I am going to produce a work of art.’ I write it because there is some lie that I want to expose, some fact to which I want to draw attention, and my initial concern is to get a hearing. — George Orwell
When I think of art I think of beauty. Beauty is the mystery of life. It is not in the eye it is in the mind. In our minds there is awareness of perfection. — Agnes Martin
When love and skill work together, expect a masterpiece. — John Ruskin
When my daughter was about seven years old, she asked me one day what I did at work. I told her I worked at the college- that my job was to teach people how to draw. She stared back at me, incredulous, and said, “You mean they forget?” — Howard Ikemoto
When your story is ready for a rewrite, cut it to the bone. Get rid of every ounce of excess fat. This is going to hurt; revising a story down to the bare essentials is always a little like murdering children, but it must be done. — Stephen King
Whether you succeed or not is irrelevant, there is no such thing. Making your unknown known is the important thing–and keeping the unknown always beyond you. — Georgia O'Keeffe
Whoever neglects the arts when he is young has lost the past and is dead to the future. — Sophocles
Winners have the ability to step back from the canvas of their lives like an artist gaining perspective. They make their lives a work of art – an individual masterpiece. — Denis Waitley
Without art, the crudeness of reality would make the world unbearable. — George Bernard Shaw
Words can be like X-rays if you use them properly - they'll go through anything. You read and you’re pierced. — Aldous Huxley
Works of art, in my opinion, are the only objects in the material universe to possess internal order, and that is why, though I don't believe that only art matters, I do believe in Art for Art's sake. — E. M. Forster
Write drunk, edit sober. — Ernest Hemingway
Write what disturbs you, what you fear, what you have not been willing to speak about. Be willing to be split open. — Natalie Goldberg
Write what should not be forgotten. — Isabel Allende
Writers live twice. —  Natalie Goldberg
Writing is the only thing that, when I do it, I don’t feel I should be doing something else. — Gloria Steinem
You can always edit a bad page. You can’t edit a blank page. — Jodi Picoult
You can fix anything but a blank page. — Nora Roberts
You can make anything by writing. — C.S. Lewis
You cannot be all things to all people. Be unique. Be different. Give to others what you want yourself. And do what you were made to do. — Robert Kiyosaki
You can’t let praise or criticism get to you. It’s a weakness to get caught up in either one. — John Wooden
You don’t start out writing good stuff. You start out writing crap and thinking it’s good stuff, and then gradually you get better at it. That’s why I say one of the most valuable traits is persistence. — Octavia E. Butler
You fail only if you stop writing. — Ray Bradbury
You have to systematically create confusion; it sets creativity free. Everything that is contradictory creates life. — Salvador Dalí
You have to write the book that wants to be written. And if the book will be too difficult for grown-ups, then you write it for children. — Madeleine L'Engle
You just have to go on when it is worst and most helpless - there is only one thing to do with a novel and that is go straight on through to the end of the damn thing. — Ernest Hemingway
You must not fight too often with one enemy, or you will teach him all your art of war. — Napoleon Bonaparte
You must stay drunk on writing so reality cannot destroy you. — Ray Bradbury
You should write because you love the shape of stories and sentences and the creation of different words on a page. Writing comes from reading, and reading is the finest teacher of how to write. — Annie Proulx
You use a glass mirror to see your face; you use works of art to see your soul. — George Bernard Shaw
You write to communicate to the hearts and minds of others what's burning inside you, and we edit to let the fire show through the smoke. — Arthur Plotnik
Your writing voice is the deepest possible reflection of who you are. The job of your voice is not to seduce or flatter or make well-shaped sentences. In your voice, your readers should be able to hear the contents of your mind, your heart, your soul. — Meg Rosoff
